JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
TONIGHT:
CHAOS AND CONFRONTATION AS
MIGRANTS AND REFUGEES PUSH TO
MOVE FARTHER WEST ACROSS EUROPE.
A MORAL TEST FOR THE CONTINENT
AS THE CRISIS ESCALATES.
>> Ifill: ALSO AHEAD THIS
THURSDAY:
>> WE'RE NOT ISSUING A MARRIAGE
LICENSE.
>> Ifill: JAILED FOR CONTEMPT: A
KENTUCKY CLERK DEFIES THE
SUPREME COURT RULING ALLOWING
MARRIAGE LICENSES FOR SAME-SEX
COUPLES.
>> RIGHT NOW, I THINK SHE HAS TO
GIVE SOME SERIOUS CONSIDERATION
ABOUT HOW LONG SHE WANTS TO SIT
IN COUNTY JAIL.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, A DEFLATED
SUSPENSION.
A JUDGE RULES TO LET NEW ENGLAND
PATRIOTS QUARTERBACK TOM BRADY
PLAY AT THE START OF THE NFL
SEASON.
>> Ifill: ALL THAT AND MORE
ON TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: THE DESPERATION ONLY
DEEPENED TODAY FOR THOUSANDS OF
>> Ifill: ALL THAT AND MORE
PEOPLE TRYING TO MAKE THE
JOURNEY FROM THE MIDDLE EAST,
ACROSS EASTERN EUROPE TO
GERMANY.
CROWDS FOUGHT WITH POLICE IN
HUNGARY AS CHARGES AND COUNTER-
CHARGES FLEW BETWEEN EUROPEAN
LEADERS IN BRUSSELS.
WE'LL HAVE A FULL REPORT, AFTER
THE NEWS SUMMARY.
>> Woodruff: DONALD TRUMP TODAY
RULED OUT A THIRD-PARTY OR
INDEPENDENT BID FOR THE WHITE
HOUSE, IF HE DOESN'T WIN THE
REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL
NOMINATION.
THE BILLIONAIRE BUSINESSMAN HAD
REFUSED TO MAKE THAT PROMISE
DURING THE OPENING DEBATE OF THE
2016 CAMPAIGN.
BUT HE MET TODAY WITH THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY'S NATIONAL
CHAIRMAN, THEN EMERGED
AT HIS MANHATTAN SKYSCRAPER TO
SHOW HIS SIGNED LOYALTY OATH.
>> I WILL BE TOTALLY PLEDGING MY
ALLEGIANCE TO THE REPUBLICAN
PARTY AND THE CONSERVATIVE
PRINCIPLES FOR WHICH IT STANDS
AND WE WILL GO OUT AND WE WILL
FIGHT HARD AND WE WILL WIN.
WE WILL WIN.
AND MOST IMPORTANTLY, WE WILL
MAKE OUR COUNTRY GREAT AGAIN.
>> Woodruff: THE PLEDGE IS NOT
LEGALLY BINDING, BUT TRUMP SAID
HE SEES "NO CIRCUMSTANCES" UNDER
WHICH HE'D TEAR IT UP.
>> Ifill: A FORMER STATE
DEPARTMENT STAFFER WHO HELPED
SET UP HILLARY CLINTON'S PRIVATE
E-MAIL SERVER IS REFUSING TO
TESTIFY BEFORE A HOUSE
COMMITTEE.
INSTEAD, ATTORNEYS NOW SAY BRYAN
PAGLIANO WILL CITE HIS RIGHT
AGAINST SELF-INCRIMINATION.
THE COMMITTEE IS INVESTIGATING
THE 2012 ATTACK ON U.S.
DIPLOMATS IN BENGHAZI, LIBYA,
WHEN CLINTON WAS SECRETARY OF
STATE.
>> Woodruff: PROSECUTORS IN
CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA
SERVED NOTICE TODAY THEY'LL SEEK
THE DEATH PENALTY FOR DYLANN
ROOF, THE MAN ACCUSED OF
SHOOTING NINE BLACK CHURCHGOERS
TO DEATH IN JUNE.
ROOF ALLEGEDLY OPENED FIRE
DURING BIBLE STUDY AT THE
HISTORIC EMANUEL A.M.E. CHURCH.
PROSECUTOR SCARLETT WILSON SAYS
SHE'S MET WITH ALL OF THE
VICTIMS' FAMILIES SINCE THEN.
>> ALL UNDERSTAND MY
RESPONSIBILITY AND HAVE SHOWN
GREAT RESPECT, EVEN DEFERENCE,
FOR MY DECISION TO SEEK THE
DEATH PENALTY FOR THE KILLINGS
AT MOTHER EMANUEL CHURCH.
FOR THAT I AM TRULY, TRULY
GRATEFUL.
THIS WAS THE ULTIMATE CRIME, AND
JUSTICE FROM OUR STATE CALLS FOR
THE ULTIMATE PUNISHMENT.
>> Woodruff: SOME OF THE
RELATIVES HAVE PUBLICLY FORGIVEN
ROOF, AND THE PROSECUTOR
ACKNOWLEDGED SOME OF THEM OPPOSE
THE DEATH PENALTY.
>> Ifill: THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT
IS OUT WITH ITS FINAL REPORT ON
FERGUSON, MISSOURI, AND IT WARNS
OTHER TOWNS TO TAKE HEED.
THE TROUBLE IN FERGUSON ERUPTED
AFTER A WHITE OFFICER KILLED
MICHAEL BROWN IN AUGUST LAST
YEAR.
THE REPORT SAYS, IN PART:
"THE ABSENCE OF TRUST BETWEEN
THE POLICE... AND MANY IN THE
COMMUNITY NEGATIVELY IMPACTED
THE RESPONSE OF ALL AGENCIES
INVOLVED."
IT ALSO BLAMES MILITARY-STYLE
TACTICS THAT ANTAGONIZED
DEMONSTRATORS.
>> Woodruff: NEW FEDERAL
REGULATIONS WILL BAN HEALTH CARE
DISCRIMINATION AGAINST
TRANSGENDER PEOPLE.
THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
HUMAN SERVICES ISSUED THE
PROPOSAL TODAY, UNDER THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
FOR THE FIRST TIME, IT BARS BIAS
BASED ON GENDER IDENTITY.
THE RESULT WILL LIKELY BE
EXPANDED INSURANCE COVERAGE FOR
GENDER TRANSITION.
>> Ifill: CHINA STAGED A SHOW OF
MILITARY POWER TODAY, TO MARK 70
YEARS SINCE JAPAN'S DEFEAT IN
WORLD WAR TWO.
AT THE SAME TIME, PRESIDENT XI
JINPING IS CUTTING ITS FORCE,
AND PLEDGED HIS COUNTRY WILL
NEVER SEEK TO DOMINATE OTHERS.
LUCY WATSON OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS REPORTS FROM
BEIJING.
>> Reporter: IT STARTED WITH A
FLOURISH.
CHINA'S BIGGEST EVER DISPLAY OF
POWER.
A DIZZYING SPECTACLE SHOWING THE
INTIMIDATING ADVANCEMENT OF ITS
WEAPONS.
THIS PARADE WAS TO COMMEMORATE
VICTORY OVER JAPAN AT THE END OF
WORLD R IIWA.
BUT IT WAS ALSO A VEHICLE FOR
CHINA'S LEADER TO RALLY HIS
TROOPS AND HIS NATION.
THIS IS A SPECTACULAR DISPLAY.
HIS WAY OF STOKING PATRIOTISM
AND TRYING TO COMMAND RESPECT
FROM THE REST OF THE WORLD.
AND HE CHOSE THIS GLOBAL
TF
CUTTING TROOP NUMBERS BY
300,000, BUT THEY WILL STILL BE
MORE THAN TWO MILLION STRONG.
SO IT'S A GESTURE THAT WILL DO
LITTLE TO REDUCE REGIONAL
WORRIES OF THOSE WARY OF CHINA'S
REAL AMBITIONS.
WHEN THE COUNTRY'S MADE HUGE
STRIDES TO BUILD A WORLD CLASS
ARMY.
THE PRESIDENT WANTS TO BE ONE OF
CHINA'S STRONGEST LEADERS WHO
STEERS IT AWAY FROM ECONOMIC
TURMOIL.
AND THIS IS A MAN WHO CAN GRIND
A TY TCIO A HALT, CHANGE THE
WEATHER IF HE WANTS TO, THE
INFAMOUS BEIJING SMOG WAS
CLEARED FOR THIS OCCASION.
SO LITTLE STANDS IN HIS WAY.
>> Ifill: ALSO TODAY, THE
"FINANCIAL TIMES" REPORTED THE
U.S. PLANS TO SANCTION CHINESE
COMPANIES FOR USING HACKERS TO
STEAL INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY.
>> Woodruff: FRENCH
INVESTIGATORS HAVE CONFIRMED
THAT DEBRIS FOUND IN THE WESTERN
INDIAN OCEAN BELONGS TO MALAYSIA
AIRLINES FLIGHT 370.
THE JETLINER DISAPPEARED MORE
THAN A YEAR AGO WITH 239 PEOPLE
ON BOARD.
THE DEBRIS-- PART OF A WING--
WASHED UP ON REUNION ISLAND,
2,600 MILES WEST OF WHERE A
SEARCH FOR THE PLANE IS
CONTINUING.
>> Ifill: BACK IN THIS COUNTRY,
SCORES ON THE S.A.T. COLLEGE
ENTRANCE EXAMS HAVE DROPPED TO
THE LOWEST IN NEARLY A DECADE.
THE COLLEGE BOARD ADMINISTERS
THE TEST.
A REPORT TODAY FINDS THAT ONLY
42% OF STUDENTS WHO TOOK THE
TEST IN THE CLASS OF 2015 ARE
PREPARED FOR COLLEGE-LEVEL WORK
OR CAREER-TRAINING.
OVERALL, AVERAGE S.A.T. SCORES
HAVE BEEN FALLING STEADILY SINCE
2006.
>> Woodruff: THERE'S ALSO WORD
TODAY OF A SPIKE IN THE NUMBER
OF STUDENTS ASKING THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT TO FORGIVE THEIR
COLLEGE LOAN DEBT.
NEARLY 12,000 PEOPLE HAVE FILED
CLAIMS, SAYING THEIR SCHOOL SHUT
DOWN BEFORE THEY GRADUATED, OR
LIED TO THEM ABOUT THEIR JOB
PROSPECTS.OWS THE COLLAPSE
OF CORINTHIAN COLLEGES, A FOR-
PROFIT CHAIN.
>> Ifill: AND, WALL STREET
CALMED CONSIDERABLY AFTER THE
SWINGS OF RECENT DAYS.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 23 POINTS TO CLOSE ABOVE
16,370.
THE NASDAQ FELL 16 POINTS, AND
THE S&P 500 ROSE TWO
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
EUROPE STRUGGLES TO RESPOND TO A
SURGE OF MIGRANTS AND REFUGEES
MOVING WEST.
A COUNTY CLERK JAILED FOR
DEFYING THE SUPREME COURT ON
SAME SEX MARRIAGE.
AND MUCH MORE.
>> Woodruff: WE TURN AGAIN TO
THE MIGRANT AND REFUGEE CRISIS
IN EUROPE.
ANOTHER DAY BROUGHT MORE ANGER,
DESPERATION, AND SORROW
WE BEGIN OUR COVERAGE IN HUNGARY
WHERE JAMES MATES OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS SPENT THE DAY
WITH REFUGEES DESPERATE TO
LEAVE, BUT WITH NO WAY OUT.
A WARNING: SOME IMAGES MAY BE
DISTURBING.
>> FOR 48 HOURS THEY'VE BEEN
KEPT OUT OF BUDAPEST CENTRAL
STATION, DENIED BOARDING ON
ALL TRAINS.
SO WHEN INEXPLICABLY THIS
MORNING THE HUNGARIANS
REOPENED THE PLATFORMS,
CHAOS WAS ENTIRELY
PREDICTABLE.
THEY RUSHED FOR THE FIRST
TRAIN THAT CAME IN BELIEVING
WRONGLY IT WAS HEADED TO
GERMANY.
CHILDREN WERE PASSED
OVERHEAD, VISIBLY DISTRESSED
IN THE CRUSH.
THEY BELIEVED THISAS T WO BE
THE FIRST TRAIN OUT OF
BUDAPEST AND MAYBE EVEN THE
LAST.
WAIT ASKING NOT SEEM TO BE
AN OPTION.
>> GERMANY.
>> THE ANNOUNCEMENT THAT
THIS TRAIN IS NOT GOING
ANYWHERE, AND PLEASE GET OFF
IT, BUT AFTER TWO DAYS STUCK
IN THETATI SON, THEY AREN'T
LISTENING, MORE PEOPLE ARE
GETTING ON.
>> THE SIGN ON THE DOOR
CLEARLY NAMED A DESTINATION
IN HUNGARY BUT IN A FOREIGN
LAND THEY HAD SEEN WHAT THEY
THOUGHT WAS A GERMAN NAME ON
THE SIDE OF THE CARRIAGE.
>> WE'VE SEEN THE GERMAN
WRITING, THIS MAN SAID.
WE THINK THIS TRAIN IS GOING
TO GERMANY.
>> A VOLUNTEER AIDE WORKER
COULDN'T CONVINCE THEM
OTHERWISE.
>> MAYBE THE TRAIN STAY
HERE.
I DON'T KNOW.
BUT NO GERMANY.
THIS IS WHAT THE POLICE SAY.
>> EVEN AS THE TRAIN PULLED
OUT, THERE WAS AN
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THERE
WOULD BE NO INTERNATIONAL
DEPAR TURES.
BUT SEEING THE DANUBE PASS
BELOW WAS ENOUGH TO CONVINCE
THEM ALL WAS GOING WELL.
THE HEAT IN THE CARRIAGES
WAS ALMOST UNBEARABLE.
OUR CAMERA LENS FOGGING UP
IN MOMENTS.
AND WITHIN LESS THAN AN HOUR,
THE NEWS GOT WORSE.
IN THE NEXT TOWN, THERE WAS
A RECEPTION PARTY THIS WAS
THE END OF THE LINE.
THE PASSENGERS FOM ORNE
CARRIAGE WERE ENCOURAGED TO
LEAVE BUT AS THEY WERE BEING
CORRALLED BY POLICEMAN
KEEPING THEMSELVES OUT IN
RIOT GEAR, THEY BEGAN TO
SUSPECT THE TRUTH.
THEY WERE BEING LEAD AWAY TO
A FEARBY REFUGEE CAMP.
NO CAMP THEY CHANTED.
AND THEN THE CRAY THAT IS
COMING TO DEFINE THIS CRISIS.
>> SITTING ALONE WITH A TINY
BABY, A MOTHER PLEADED NOT
TO GO.
>> PLEASE, PLEASE!
>> BUT THEN HER HUSBAND
GRABBED HER AND THE CHILD
AND THREW ALL THREE OF THEM
ON TO THE TRACKS.
HE SEEMED TO INDICATE HIS
WAIVE WAS PREGNANT.
ACUTELY EMBARRASSED OF WHAT
WAS HAPPENING IN FRONT OF
THE WORLD CAMERAS,THE
POLICE NONE TOO GENTLY
ARRESTED AND HANDCUFFED HIM.
BUT WORSE WAS TO COME.
HEARING THE COMOTION FROM
BEHIND POLICE LINES, THE
REST BEGAN TO REVOLT.
FIRST A GROUP BROKE THROUGH
AND AWAY DOWN THE TRACKS.
THEN FACED WITH FIGHTING A
BATTLE, THE POLICE LINE GAVE
WAY AND ALLOWED THEM BACK ON
TO THE TRAIN.
>> A PR DISASTER, HUNGARIAN
POLICE ARE TAKING THE LINE
OF LEAST RESISTANCE AN
LETTING THESE PEOPLE BACK ON
THE TRAIN.
WHAT HAPPENS NOW, WELL, WHO
KNOWS.
>> AND FINDING OUT IS GOING
TO BE HARD.
REALIZING THIS WAS NOT
LOOKING AT ALL GOOD --
>> THE WORLD NEEDS TO SEE
WHAT HAPPENS TO THESE
PEOPLE.
>> THE CAMERAS WERE SWIFTLY
AND FIRMLY PUSHED AWAY.
IT SEEMS THE STRATEGY NOW IS
TO SIT IT OUT.
THERE IS NO INDICATION AT
ALL THE TRAIN IS GOING TO
POV AGAIN NOR THAT THOSE
ABOARD ARE GOING TO BE GIVEN
ANY CHOICE BUT TO GO TO A
FORMAL TRANSIT CENTER AND
REGISTER AS REFUGEES HERE.
THE DREAM OF A NEW LIFE IN
GERMANY MAY NOT BE HAPPENING
FOR A WHILE YET.
>> Woodruff: THE PHOTOGRAPH OF A
THREE-YEAR-OLD SYRIAN BOY WASHED
UP ON A TURKISH BEACH HAS
GALVANIZED A WORLDWIDE DEBATE
ABOUT THE PLIGHT OF REFUGEES.
AYLAN KURDI WAS ONE OF 12
SYRIANS WHO DIED TRYING TO REACH
THE GREEK ISLAND OF KOS.
A TURKISH POLICE OFFICER CARRIED
HIS LIFELESS BODY ASHORE, NOT
FAR FROM THE RESORT TOWN OF
BODRUM.
AYLAN, HIS FIVE-YEAR-OLD BROTHER
AND THEIR MOTHER ALL DIED WHEN A
TRAFFICKER ABANDONED THEM IN
HIGH SEAS.
THEIR FATHER SURVIVED AND TODAY
PREPARED TO TAKE THEIR BODIES
BACK HOME, TO KOBANI, SYRIA.
>> ( translated ): THE MA
STEERING THE BOAT SAW THAT THE
SEA IS HIGH, THE WAVE WAS HIGH.
WE WERE HIT BY THE FIRST WAVE
AND HE ESCAPED.
HE JUMPED INTO THE WATER AND
ESCAPED AWAY.
I TRIED TO TAKE OVER THE
STEERING BUT WE WERE HIT BY
ANOTHER WAVE, THE BOAT CAPSIZED.
I GRABBED MY CHILDREN AND MY
WIFE, THEY DIED.
>> Woodruff: WE TAKE A CLOSER
LOOK AT HOW THEIR STORY IS BEING
SEEN IN EUROPE, WITH STEVE
ERLANGER, THE LONDON BUREAU
CHIEF FOR THE "NEW YORK TIMES."
AND OUR OWN PBS NEWSHOUR SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT MALCOLM BRABANT,
WHO HAS BEEN REPORTING
EXTENSIVELY ON THE REFUGEE
CRISIS FOR US IN A NUMBER OF
EUROPEAN COUNTRIES.
ING AND WE WELCOME YOU BOTH.
PAL COME, YOU ARE IN
COPENHAGEN.
WHAT IS THE REACTION THERE
AND IN DENMARK TO THIS
PICTURE, TO WHAT PEOPLE ARE
SEEING UNFOLD?
>> I THINK PEOPLE ARE
DISTRESSED VERY MUCH BY
THIS.
THROUGHOUT EUROPE.
I THINK YOU WITH HAVE TO BE
EXTREMELY HARD HEARTED NOT
TO BE MOVED BY THIS.
BUT ONE OF THE MORE
INTERESTING COMMENTS HAS
COME FROM A MARCH CALLED
MARTIN HENDRICKSON WHO IS
THE SPOKESMAN FOR
INTEGRATION FOR THE DAN
ANYBODY PEOPLE'S PARTY, THE
PARTY THAT CRACKS THE WHIP
HERE.
HE SAYS IT IS VERY
DISTRESSING BUT THE BLAME
FOR THIS LIES WITH THE
TRAFFIC EVER-- TRAFFICKERS
AND ALSO WITH IS IS AND WITH
PRESIDENT-- WITH ISIS AND
PRESIDENT ASSAD IN SYRIA.
THE PROBLEM IS, IT IS THESE
PEOPLE, IF THESE PEOPLE WHO
ARE CAUSING THE DEATHS OF
PEOPLE LIKE AYLAN.
NOT EUROPE, THERE ARE OTHERS
SAYING EUROPE IS TO BLAME
FOR THIS.
FOR EXAMPLE, TURKEY'S
PRESIDENT IS SAYING THAT
EUROPE REALLY IS TURNING THE
MEDITERRANEAN INTO A
GRAVEYARD AS A RESULT OF ITS
POLICIMENT BUT THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT IS BEING
REJECTED BY THE RIGHT WHICH
CONTROLS DENMARK.
>> Woodruff: STEVEN ERLANGER,
WHAT DO YOU SEE, THE
REACTION NOT ONLY IN BRITAIN
BUT AS YOU LOOK ACROSS THE
CONTINENT?
>> SOMETIMES PICTURES MOVE
EVENTS AND ARE NOT JUST
MOMENTS OF EVENTS.
AND THIS SEEMS TO BE ONE OF
THOSE PICTURES.
HE'S HAD AN ENORMOUS IMPACT.
AN MANY AMERICAN PAPERS
DIDN'T RUN IT ON THEIR FRONT
PAGES.
BUT NEARLY ALL THE BRITISH
PAPERS DID.
AND MANY OF THE PAPERS IN
FRANCE TOO.
AND IT HAS PUT ENORMOUS
MORAL AND POLITICAL PRESSURE
ON GOVERNMENT LEADERS.
MUCH OF THE TRUCK ON THE
AUSTRIAN HIGHWAY WITH 71
DECOMPOSING BODIES DID.
IT GIVES A SENSE OF HUMAN
TRAG GEE-- TRAGEDY AND IT
GIVES A POLITICAL PUSH.
IT'S PARTICULARLY PUSHED
DAVID CAME RO WHO HAS COME
BACK FROM VACATION AND
YESTERDAY HAD A RATHER
CALLOUS REMARK ABOUT HOW
TAKING MORE REFUGEES WON'T
SOLVE THE PROBLEM.
AND WHILE THAT'S TRUE, HE'S
TRYING TO BALANCE HIS OWN
DOMESTIC POLITICAL PROBLEMS
WHICH ARE VERY MUCH
ANTI-IMMIGRATION.
AND THE FRENCH AND GERMANS
ARE TOGETHER TRYING TO PUSH
A UNIFIED EU PLAN AGAINST AN
EU THAT IS NOT UNIFIED, THAT
WORKS BY CONSENSUS.
SO IT IS POSSIBLE THAT THIS
PICTURE AND THE OUTRAGE
AMONG PUBLIC THAT HAD IT HAS
CAUSED WILL PUSH THESE
POLITICIANS TO COME UP WITH
A SOLUTION THAT IS LESS
CHAOTIC AND LESS CALLOUS
THAN WHAT WE'VE SEEN SO FAR.
>> Brown: MALL CON BRABANT,
IS THAT WHAT YOU ARE SEEING,
THAT MAYBE THIS ONE PICTURE
AND THE EVENTS THAT LEAD UP
TO IT COULD REALLY BRING
THESE EUROPEAN LEADERS TO
COME COME TOGETHER TO DO
SOMETHING?
>> IT DOES APPEAR AS THOUGH
THE YOUR MEAN UNION IS
PLANNING TO DO SOMETHING IN
THE COMING WEEKS.
THEY'RE COMING UP WITH A
PLAN WHEREBY ABOUT 160,000
REF GEES WILL POSSIBLY BE
DISTRIBUTED AROUND EUROPE.
THERE ARE COUNTRIES-- THAT
WILL OPT OUT INCLUDING
DENMARK AN THE UNITED
KINGDOM.
BUT IT APPEARS THE PRESSURE
IS REALLY MOUNTING ON DAVID
CAMERON, ESPECIALLY AS A
RESULT OF A CAMPAIGN FROM
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER
WHERE THEY HAVE HAD THIS
TWITTER CAMPAIGN SAYING THAT
REFUGEES ARE WELCOME.
THERE IS A SENSE THAT MAYBE
DAVID CAMERON IS GOING TO
COME UP WITH A NEW PLAN TO
TAKE SOME REFUGEES DIRECTLY
FROM THE FRONT LINE STATES
WHICH ARE ACTING AS HOSTS
FOR THEM AT THE MOMENT.
MAYBE FROM JORDAN OR FROM
TURKEY OR FROM LEBANON.
BUT CERTAINLY IT LOOKS AS
THOUGH BRITAIN WILL HAVE TO
OPEN ITS BORDERS TO SOME
DEGREE.
BUT I DON'T THINK THAT IS
NECESSARILY GOING TO BE THE
CASE IN DENMARK WHERE THE
GOVERNING COALITION, WELL,
THE GOVERNING PARTY, BACKED
UP BY THE DAN ANYBODY
PEOPLE'S PARTY IS FAIRLY
RESOLUTE.
>> Woodruff: STEVEN ERLANGER
S THERE ONE OR MORE-- WHO
ARE THE EUROPEAN LEADERS
THAT ARE GOING TO BE MAKING
A DIFFERENCE IN THE COMING
DAYS AND WEEKS ON THIS?
>> WELL, USUALLY IN THE EU
IT'S GERMANY AND FRANCE
TOGETHER.
IF THEY CAN GET TOGETHER,
AND ITALY, THAT IS REALLY
WHAT TENDS TO PUSH THE
MATTER FORWARD.
AND THEY HAVE COME OUT WITH
A JOINT STATEMENT MERKEL AND
HOLLANDE TODAY WHICH CALLED
FOR THE SETTING UP OF
RECEPTION CENTERS.
WHICH IS FAR TOO LATE.
BUT CENTERS TO HOUSE
MIGRANTS AND ASYLUM SEEKERS
AND FEED THEM.
AND MOST IMPORTANTLY, SCREEN
THEM AND DECIDE WHETHER
THEY'RE REAL REFUGEES OR
WHETHER THEY'RE ECONOMIC
MIGRANTS.
AND THEN CAN BE SENT HOME.
BUT SECONDLY, THEY ALSO WANT
TO SET UP A MANDATORY SYSTEM
WHEREBY REFUGEES AND ASYLUM
SEEKERS ARE SHARED OUT TO
THE REST OF THE EUROPEAN
UNION.
BECAUSE AT THE MOMENT, AS
THE FRENCH SAY, ONLY FIVE
COUNTRIES HAVE TAKEN 75% OF
ALL THE ASYLUM SEEKERS.
THE PROBLEM IS, AS I SAY, EU
WORKS BY CONSENSUS.
THE POLLS ARE AGAINST IT.
THE HUNGARIANS ARE AGAINST
IT.
A LOT OF THE NEW MEMBERS
FROM CENTRAL EUROPE ARE
AGAINST MANDATORY QUOTAS.
SO IT'S GOING TO BE
DIFFICULT.
BUT THE EU COMMISSION IS
WORKING ON IDEAS THAT
PERHAPS SOME COUNTRIES
MONEY INSTEAD TAKE REFUGEES
FOR THESE CENTERS.
BUT AS MALCOLM SAYS, THERE'S
A MEETING OF INTERIOR
JUSTICE MINISTER, NOT UNTIL
THE 14th OF SEPTEMBER.
AND THEN THAT MIGHT BE
FOLLOWED BY A SUMMIT MEETING
OF ACTUAL LEADERS.
SO THIS, THIS TRAGEDY STILL
HAS WEEKS TO GO, IT SEEMS TO
ME.
>> Rooney: MALCOLM BRABANT,
YOU HAVE BEEN REPORTING ON
THIS FOR WEEKS AND WEEKS NOW,
IF THESE STEPS ARE TAKEN, IS
THAT GOING TO MAKE A
DIFFERENCE?
>> WELL, I'VE BEEN TALKING
TO MY CONTACTS ON THE GREEK
ISLAND OF LESBUS TO SEE WHAT
IS HAPPENING NOW.
IT SEEMS THERE IS AN HE NOR
MOUSE RUSH TO GET INTO
EUROPE.
I WAS TALKING TO SOMEBODY
WHO REGULARLY GOES DOWN TO
THE BEACHES EVERY MORNING TO
WELCOME THESE REFUGEES.
SHE SAYS YOU LOOK OUT OF
YOUR WINDOW NOW AND THERE
ARE SOMETIMES 20 OR 30
BOATS.
3,000 PEOPLE A DAY.
ARE NOW ARRIVING.
THERE WERE SUPPOSED TO BE
MAYBE AS MANY AS 70,000
PEOPLE WAITING JUST ACROSS
THE WATER IN TURKEY TO COME
ACROSS.
THE TRAFFICKERS ARE SENDING
THEM ACROSS IN WAVES.
THERE ARE NOW 15,000 PEOPLE
WHO ARE IN THE TOWN OF
NITILLINI WHICH IS THE
CAPITAL OF THE ISLAND.
15,000 REFUGEES IN AN ISLAND
WITH 25,000 GREEKS.
THE RUSH IS JUST ENORMOUS TO
TRY TO GET INTO EUROPE.
AND REMEMBER, THAT THE
WEATHER IS JUST ABOUT TO
CHANGE IN SEPTEMBER.
IT'S BEEN ROUGH ALL WEEK
ACROSS THE AGEAN BUT THE
TRAFFICKERS ARE SENDING
THESE PEOPLE ACROSS.
THE BOATS ARE REALLY
STRUGGLING TO GET ACROSS
THERE, VERY POORLY
CONSTRUCTED.
THEY HAVE VERY WEAK OUTBOARD
MOTORS.
AND PEOPLE ARE GETTING INTO
THE WATER.
AND IT'S BEEN A MIRACLE THIS
WEEK THAT THERE HAVEN'T BEEN
MORE DROWNINGS.
>> Woodruff: ALL OF WHICH
RAISES THE QUESTION, WHETHER
THE KINDS OF THINGS WE'RE
HEAR COG HAPPEN WILL MAKE
ANY DIFFERENCE.
I KNOW YOU WILL CONTINUE TO
REPORT ON THIS, YOU AND
STEVEN ERLANGER, THANK YOU
BOTH, MALCOLM BRABANT, STEVE
ERLANGER, WE THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: NOW TO KENTUCKY, WHERE
A COUNTY CLERK OPPOSED TO GAY
MARRIAGE RAN AFOUL OF THE LAW.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM HAS OUR STORY.
>> Brangham: THE NEWS THAT
COUNTY CLERK KIM DAVIS WAS GOING
TO JAIL CAUSED CELEBRATION FOR
GAY-RIGHTS SUPPORTERS OUTSIDE
THE FEDERAL COURTHOUSE IN
ASHLAND, KENTUCKY THIS
AFTERNOON.
>> THE JUDGE DID HIS JOB AND
FOLLOWED THE LAWS AND HELD HER
IN CONTEMPT OF COURT, AND SHE
SHOULD HAVE TO FOLLOW THOSE LAWS
AS WELL.
>> DO YOUR JOB!
DO YOUR JOB!
>> Brangham: THE CONTROVERSY
CAME TO A HEAD EARLIER THIS WEEK
WHEN DAVIS, THAT'S HER BEHIND
THE DESK, REFUSED AGAIN TO ISSUE
MARRIAGE LICENSES TO SAME-SEX
COUPLES, CITING HER CHRISTIAN
BELIEFS AGAINST THE PRACTICE.
>> WE'RE NOT ISSUING MARRIAGE
LICENSES TODAY.
>> BASED ON WHAT?
>> SO I WOULD SUGGEST YOU ALL...
>> WHY ARE YOU NOT ISSUING
MARRIAGE LICENSES TODAY?
>> BECAUSE I'M NOT.
>> UNDER WHOSE AUTHORITY ARE YOU
NOT ISSUING MARRIAGE LICENSES?
>> UNDER GOD'S AUTHORITY.
>> Brangham: BACK IN JUNE, WHEN
THE U.S. SUPREME COURT RULED
THAT GAY MARRIAGE WAS LEGAL
NATIONWIDE, DAVIS STOPPED
ISSUING MARRIAGE LICENSES FOR
ANYONE IN ROWAN COUNTY,
KENTUCKY.
WHEN GOVERNOR STEVE BESHEAR
ORDERED ALL COURT CLERKS TO
LICENSE SAME-SEX COUPLES, DAVIS
SUED THE GOVERNOR FOR RELIGIOUS
DISCRIMINATN.IO
SHE TOOK HER CASE ALL THE WAY TO
THE SUPREME COURT, BUT ON
MONDAY, THE JUSTICES REJECTED
HER APPEAL WITHOUT COMMENT.
DAVIS REMAINED DEFIANT.
IN A STATEMENT SHE SAID SHE
WOULDN'T CHANGE COURSE: "IT IS
NOT A LIGHT ISSUE FOR ME.
IT IS A HEAVEN OR HELL DECISION.
I INTEND TO CONTINUE TO SERVE
THE PEOPLE OF ROWAN COUNTY, BUT
I CANNOT VIOLATE MY CONSCIENCE.
DAVIS TOLD A FEDERAL COURT JUDGE
MUCH THE SAME TODAY, BUT HE
RULED HER IN CONTEMPT OF COURT
AND SENT HER TO JAIL.
MARCIA COYLE IS WITH THE
"NATIONAL LAW JOURNAL," AND A
FREQUENT CONTRIBUTOR TO THE
NEWSHOUR.
SHE AND OTHERS WHO WORK FOR
THE GOVERNMENT HAVE A RIGHT
TO THEIR BELIEFS, RELIGIOUS
OR OTHERWISE, TO AGREE OR
DISAGREE WITH A LAW OR
SUPREME COURT DECISION.
HOWEVER, THEY DON'T HAVE AN
UNLIMITED RIGHT.
SHE TAKES AN OATH OF OFFICE
AS MANY OF THESE CLERKS DO.
AND SHE IS REQUIRED TO
FULFILL THAT OATH OF OFFICE.
A IF SHE CANNOT, THEN SHE
HAS TO RESIGN.
>> IN
>> Brangham: IN KENTUCKY, DAVIS'
STANCE HAS INCITED OUTRAGE IN
SOME QUARTERS.
>> ENOUGH IS ENOUGH.
IT'S CALLED RESPECT FOR THE LAW.
KENTUCKY IS #1 IN STATE FOR
AND WE ARE SPENDING TAXPAYERS
MONEY ON THIS, AT IWHS THE LAW.
IF YOU CAN'T DO YOUR JOB,
RESIGN.
>> Brangham: BUT THE EMBATTLED
COUNTY CLERK ALSO HAS HER
SUPPORTERS, MANY OF WHOM ALSO
SHOWED UP OUTSIDE HER FEDERAL
COURT HEARING TODAY.
>> MY HOPES WOULD BE THAT
GOVERNOR AND STATE OF KENTUCKY
WOULD UPHOLD THE LAW, AND UPHOLD
RELIGIOUS FREEDOM, TO WHERE OUR
COUNTY CLERKS WOULDN'T HAVE TO
DO THINGS AGAINST THEIR
CONVICTIONS, WOULDN'T HAVE TO
WRITE DOWN THEIR NAMES ON A
CERTIFICATE THAT THEY FEEL IS
AGAINST GOD'S WORD.
>> Brangham: DAVIS' STANCE, AND
THE PROTESTS IT'S SPARKED, HAVE
ALSO DRAWN REPUBLICAN
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES INTO THE
FRAY.
SOUTH CAROLINA SENATOR LINDSEY
GRAHAM WAS ASKED ABOUT DAVIS
TUESDAY, DURING AN
INTERVIEW WITH CONSERVATIVE
RADIO HOST HUGH HEWITT.
>> WHAT'S YOUR OPINION ON WHAT
SHE OUGHT TO DO HERE SENATOR?
>> Brangham: OTHER CANDIDATES
DISAGREE, INCLUDING DAVIS' HOME-
STATE SENATOR RAND PAUL.
HE TOLD THE "BOSTON HERALD": "I
THINK PEOPLE WHO DO STAND UP AND
ARE MAKING A STAND TO SAY THAT
THEY BELIEVE IN SOMETHING, IS AN
IMPORTANT PART OF THE AMERICAN
WA"Y.
DAVIS' OWN BELIEFS WILL NOW BE
TESTED BY A STAY BEHIND BARS,
AND THERE'S NO INDICATION HOW
LONG IT MIGHT LAST.
AGAIN, MARCIA COYLE:
>> I HAVE NO DOUBT THAT THERE'S
GOING TO BE MUCH MORE LEGAL
ACTION SURROUNDING HER.
HER LAWYERS MAY WELL APPEAL THE
CONTEMPT ORDER TO THE FEDERAL
APPELLATE COURT, BUT RIGHT NOW,
I THINK SHE HAS TO GIVE SOME
SERIOUS CONSIDERATION ABOUT HOW
LONG SHE WANTS TO SIT IN COUNTY
JAIL.
>> Brangham: THE JUDGE ALSO
>> Woodruff: STAY WITH US,
COMING UP ON THE NEWSHOUR:
A JUDGE THROWS OUT NFL
QUARTERBACK TOM BRADY'S
SUSPENSION.
ARE FAMILY LEAVE POLICIES ALSO
GOOD BUSINESS FOR EMPLOYERS?
AND, THE MAYOR OF LOS ANGELES ON
HIS CITY'S CHANGINGELAT RIONSHIP
WITH WATER.
PRESIDENT OBAMA GOT THREE MORE
SENATORS TO BACK THE IRAN
NUCLEAR DEAL TODAY: DEMOCRATS
CORY BOOKER, MARK WARNER AND
HEIDI HEITKAMP, BRINGING THE
TOTAL NUMBER TO 37.
MEANWHILE, VICE PRESIDENT JOE
BIDEN WAS AT A JEWISH COMMUNITY
CENTER IN FLORIDA THIS MORNING,
TO PRESS WHAT HAS BEEN A HIGH-
STAKES LOBBYING CAMPAIGN FOR
THE HEARTS AND MINDS OF AMERICAN
JEWS.
TONIGHT, CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
TAKES A CLOSER LOOK TONIGHT AT
THAT COMMUNITY AND THE ISSUE
WHICH IS TRIGGERING RIGOROUS
DEBATE.
WITHIN THE JEWISH COMMUNITY
OVER THE IRAN DEAL HAS BEEN
INTENSE AND BRUISING, WITH
ADS OVER THE AIRWAVES AN
INTERNET, FROM THE POWERFUL
AMERICAN ISRAEL PUBLIC
AFFAIRS COMMITTEE OR A PAC
AND ITS A FELT YATE-- AIPAC
AND IT'S A FELTUATED GROUPS.
>> CONGRESS SHOULD REJECT A
BAD DEAL.
WE NEED A BETTER DEAL.
>> Warner: AND FROM ADVOCACY
GROUPS LIKE J-STREET
FAVORING IT.
>> THIS DEAL PREVENTEDS A
RAN FROM PRODUCING A NUCLEAR
WEAPON.
IT IS GOOD FOR AMERICA, GOOD
FOR ISRAEL, AND MAKES BOTH
COUNTRIES SAFER AND MORE
SECURE.
>> Warner: AND IN DIRECT
APPEALS FROM THE TWO
COUNTRIES'S LEADERS IN
COMPETING WEBCASTS SPONSORED
BY THE JEWISH FEDERATIONS OF
NORTH AMERICA.
ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU WARNING
OF THE DANGERS.
>> THIS IS A TIME TO STAND
UP AND BE COUNTED.
OPPOSE THIS DANGEROUS DEAL.
>> Warner: AND PRESIDENT
OBAMA ASSERTING THE SPECIAL
BOND THE U.S. FEELS WITH
ISRAEL.
>> LIKE ALL FAMILIES,
SOMETIMES THERE ARE GOING TO
BE DISAGREEMENTSMENT AND
SOMETIMES PEOPLE GET ANGRIER
ABOUT DISAGREEMENTS IN
FAMILIES THAN THEY DO WITH
FOLKS WHO AREN'T FAMILY.
>> THIS IS, IN FACT,
PERCEIVED TO BE A CORE
STRATEGIC EXI
SENSE-- EXISTENTIAL ISSUE.
>> AARON DAVID MILLER IS A
VETERAN MIDDLE EAST PEACE
NEGOTIATOR UNDER SEVERAL
PRESIDENTS.
>> AMERICAN JEWS WORRY FOR A
LIVING.
AND THE REALITY IS THAT
NEVER IN MY 40 SOME YEARS
HAVE I SEEN A COMMUNITY MORE
ENERGIZED, MORE CONFLICTED
AND AT TIMES MORE RELUCTANT
TO ENGAGE IN WHAT ONE JEWISH
LEADER DESCRIBED AS
FRATRACIDE.
>> Warner: HOW DIFFICULT OF
A DECISION IS THIS FOR
MEMBERS OF THE AMERICAN JAUISH
COMMUNITY?
>> IT'S A VERY STARK CHOICE.
EITHER YOU SUPPORT THIS DEAL
OR YOU O OPPOSE IT.
>> Warner: FORMER OBAMA
STATE DEPARTMENT OFFICIAL
RUNS THE-- AT THE BROOKINGS
INSTITUTE.
>> IT IS NOT EASY TO SAY
THERE IS SOME COMPROMISE
TOGETHER TO KNIT TOGETHER
OPPOSEING SIDES.
9 SITUATION IN THE MIDDLE
EAST IS MORE TENSE AND SCARY
IN MANY WAYS THAN IT HAS
BEEN IN A LONG TIME AN
AMERICAN JEWS FEEL THAT TOO.
THEY THERE ARE CONCERNS
ABOUT ISRAEL ARE AS SHARP AS
EVER.
>> Warner: THAT SHARPNESS IS
FELT HERE FAR FROM THE SCARY
MIDDLE EAST AT THE KOL
SHALOM SYNAGOGUE IN
ROCKVILLE MARYLAND, OUTSIDE
WASHINGTON.
THE DEBATE WITHIN THIS CON
GO GRATION HAS FOCUSED ON
WHETHER THE IRAN DEAL IS
GOOD FOR AMERICA, GOOD FOR
ISRAEL AND HOW TO WEIGH THE
TWO.
LAST FRIDAY EVENING JUST
BEFORE THE SABATH BEGAN, WE
CAME TO KOL SHALL OMING TO
SAMPLE OPINION.
-- SAHLOM AND SAVRP ELED
OPINION.
WE FOUND THE FOR AND AGAINST,
DOUBT AND DISMAY.
COLLEGE STUDENT MARK REICHEL
HAS YET TO MAKE UP HIS MIND.
>> IN MY FAMILY THERE IS A
LOT OF ARGUING OVER DINNER
AND STUFF.
YEAH, SOME QUITE INTENSE.
>> DIGITAL STRATEGY COMPANY
PRESIDENT JEFFREY RUM IS
UNDECIDED BUT BRE MOANS THE
TONE OF THE DEBATE.
>> IT IS SAD TO SEE THE
JEWISH COMMUNITY HAS BECOME
SO DIVISIVE OVER THE IRAN
DEAL.
I THINK THAT AT A TIME WHEN
WE NEED TO BE COMING
TOGETHER, WE'RE BEING TAKEN
APART.
>> Warner: WITH A BIRD'S EYE
VIEW OF THE DEBATE WITHIN
KOL SHALUM RABBIT MALTZMAN.
>> IT'S A POLITICALLY AWARE
CONGREGATION WITH VOCAL
OPPONENTS AND SUPPORTER OF
THE DEAL.
WITH E-MAILS AND PERSONAL
TREATIES BATT SIDES HAVE
PRESSED HIM HARD TO ANNOUNCE
A POSITION.
YOU HAVE NOT TAKEN A PUB
LOOK STAND, WHY NOT?
>> I DON'T THINK THIS IS A
MORAL OR AN EARTH CALL ISSUE
THAT I HAVE A RIGHT TO TAKE
A STAND ON.
THIS IS A POLITICAL
QUESTION.
AND I BELIEVE THAT BOTH SIDES,
UNDERLYING BOTH SIDES THERE
IS A FEELING THAT WE JUST
WANT THE BEST FOR ISRAEL.
BUT THERE ARE DIFFERENT WAYS
OF LOOKING AT IT.
>> Warner: WE MET TWO
MEMBERS FIRMLY ON OPPOSITE
SIDES, BIOTECH EXECUTIVE
LEWIS SCHRAGGER ARE AN AN
AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHER AND
PLAYWRIGHT.
>> AFTER CAREFUL
CONSIDERATION, AFTER READING
THE AGREEMENT, TALKING TO
PEOPLE I KNOW, BOTH HERE AND
IN ISRAEL AND READING
EVERYTHING I CAN, I HAVE
COME DOWN ON, WITH THE
POSITION THAT THIS SHOULD BE
SUPPORTED.
>> Warner: TALK A LITTLE BIT
MORE ABOUT WHY IT'S
DIFFICULT?
>> WELL, BECAUSE THERE'S A
LOT AT STAKE.
YOU KNOW, EVERY ONE AGREES
THAT A NUCLEAR-ARMED IRAN IS
AN EXISTENTIAL THREAT TO
ISRAEL.
IT SIMPLY IS.
IT'S A SMALL COUNTRY.
AND IT IS SURROUNDED BY
STATES THAT DON'T HAVE ITS
BEST INTERESTS IN MIND.
THERE IS ALWAYS A SENSE OF
VULNERABILITY.
WE HAVE TO TAKE THAT VERY
SERIOUSLY.
>> Warner: WHAT IS YOUR VIEW
OF IT?
>> I FIND THAT IT'S JUST A
PIECE.
THAT WE'VE HAD 30 YEARS IN
WHICH THE IRANIANS HAVE BEEN
CHEATING.
>> Warner: HOLOCAUST
SURVIVOR AL HELLMAN, A
FORMER SCIENCE DIRECTOR AT
THE NATIONAL CANCER
INSTITUTE HEARS THE ECHOES
OF HISTORY.
HE IS CERTAIN THE DEAL WILL
ENDANGER ISRAEL AND THE
UNITED STATES IN THE LONG
RUN.
SO WHAT IS THE ALTERNATIVE
GIVEN WHERE WE ARE NOW?
>> THE ALL
ANSWER-- ALTERNATIVE FIRST
OF ALL IS TO BASICALLY SET A
RED LINE, THAT IN THE EVENT
THAT THEY DO NOT CONFORM
WITHIN THE NEXT SIX MONTHS,
THAT WE ARE GOING TO DESTROY
THEIR NUCLEAR FACILITIES.
>> Warner: THE SOLUTION IS
MILITARY.
>> THE SOLUTION IS MILITARY
AM I KNOW WHAT HAPPENED
PRIOR TO THE SECOND WORLD
WAR.
I LOOK AT THIS DEAL, AND
FROM THE VERY BEGINNING, THE
SAME WAY I THINK I LOOKED AT
IT WHEN CHAMBERLAIN CAME
BACK WITH PEACE IN OUR TIME.
>> Warner: SO WHEN YOU BRING
UP THE CHAMBERLAIN EXAMPLE,
ARE YOU ESSENTIALLY SAYING
THAT WITTINGLY OR
UNWITTINGLY THOSE WHO
SUPPORT THIS DEAL ARE
ENGAGING IN APPEASEMENT?
>> I THINK SO, ABSOLUTELY.
>> ONE OF THE BIG CONCERNS
FOR ME AS I REACHED MY
CONCLUSION ABOUT THIS, IS A
CONCERN ABOUT WHAT I CALL
THE A WORD IN THE AMERICAN
JEWISH COMMUNITY WHICH IS
APPEASEMENT.
IF I HONESTLY THOUGHT THIS
WAS APPEASEMENT, I WOULDN'T
GO ANYWHERE CLOSE TO IT.
>> Warner: ALSO PLAYING A
ROLE IN THIS DEBATE ARE
MIXED FEELINGS ABOUT BOTH
PRIME MINISTER NETANYAHU AND
PRESIDENT OBAMA.
A MAJORITY OF JEWS ARE
DEMOCRAT, AND SOME HAVE BEEN
OFFENDED BY NETANYAHU
INSERTING HIMSELF SO
VOCIFEROUSLY INTO A U.S.
DOMESTIC DEBATE.
>> HE'S THE PRIME MINISTER
OF A SOVEREIGN COUNTRY.
ABOUT WHICH I CARE DEEPLY.
BUT THE WAY HE IS
INTERVENING POLITICALLY, I
FIND DEEPLY TROUBLING.
>> Warner: YET SCHRAGER ALSO
HARBORS DOUBTS ABOUT
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S RESOLVE TO
ENFORCE THE DEAL.
>> I HAVE BEEN TROUBLED BY
OBAMA'S-- I DON'T WANT TO
CALL IT FICKLENESS OR LACK
OF-- COMMITMENT IN MY VIEW,
PARTICULARLY IN DEALING WITH,
SAY, THE SYRIAN MESS.
THAT DOESN'T SHOW STRENGTH.
>> Warner: ALL THIS HAS LEFT
AMERICAN JEWS IN A MIND SAID
TAMM AR RA WITTES.
>> A DEAL LIKE THIS INVOLVES
UNCERTAINTY, IT INVOLVES
RISK.
AND MOST OF ALL IT INVOLVES
UNCERTAINTY ABOUT THE INTENT
OF THE GUYS ON THE OTHER
SIDE OF THE TABLE, OF THE
IRANIAN REGIME.
SO AT THE END OF THE DAY
PEOPLE HAVE TO MAKE A MAKE A
JUDGEMENT CALL AND THAT'S
VERY HARD.
>> EVEN AS THE WHITE HOUSE
NAILS DOWN THE CONGRESSIONAL
VOTES IT NEEDS, WHERE
AMERICAN JEWS ARE ASSESSING
WHAT THIS WILL MEAN, REMAINS
VERY HARD INDEED.
FOR THE PBS NEWSHOURING I'M
MARG RED WARNER-- MARGARET
WARNER IN WASHINGTON.
>> Ifill: WITHIN MINUTES OF A
JUDGE'S DECION TSIO OVERTURN THE
SUSPENSION OF QUARTERBACK TOM
BRADY, THE NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS
TOOK TO TWITTER TO CELEBRATE
WITH THIS PICTURE.
IT WAS A BIG WIN FOR BRADY IN
HIS BATTLE WITH NFL COMMISSIONER
ROGER GOODELL OVER WHAT'S BECOME
KNOWN AS "DEFLATEGATE."
THE JUDGE DID NOT RULE ON
WHETHER BRADY WAS AWARE OF, OR
INVOLVED WITH, A PLAN TO
DEFLATE FOOTBALLS.
BUT HE SAID GOODELL DID NOT
PROPERLY INFORM BRADY OF WHAT HE
WAS ACCUSED OF, AND THE
POTENTIAL PUNISHMENT.
HE ALSO NOTED BRADY'S LEGAL TEAM
WAS UNABLE TO EXAMINE ONE OF THE
LEAD INVESTIGATORS IN THE CASE.
DAN SHAUGHNESSY IS A SPORTS
COLUMNIST FOR THE BOSTON GLOBE.
KEVIN BLACKISTONE IS A PROFESSOR
OF SPORTS JOURNALISM AT
UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND.
HE ALSO REPORTS ON SPORTS FOR
THE "WASHINGTON POST" AND ESPN.
GENTLEMEN, WELCOME TO YOU
BOTH.
DAN SHAUGHNESSY, HOW BIG A
VICTORY IS THIS FOR TOM
BRADY?
>> AN OFFICIAL STATE HOLIDAY
HERE IN MASSACHUSETTS MOVING
FORWARD.
THIS DAY IN SEPTEMBER WILL
ALWAYS BE COMMEMORATED IN
FUTURE YEARS.
>> Ifill: BUT DESERVEDRY SO,
YOU BELIEVE?
>> WELL, THEY HAVE WAITED A
LONG TIME FOR THIS.
THIS IS VINDZ CASE,
VALIDATION, ALL THAT STUFF.
AND AS A GAME TONIGHT, A
PRESEASON GAME WHERE TOM
BRADY, I WILL DOUBT HE WILL
PLAY, BUT HE HAS A CHANCE TO
RUN ON THE FIELD.
IF BELICHICK HAS ANY SENSE
OF THEATER HE WILL SENDS HIM
OUT TO GET HAND THE BALL OFF
AND GET THE O OVATION THAT
IS NO DOUBT COMING HIS WAY.
>> Ifill: IS THIS WHAT WAS
SUPPOSED TO HAPPEN GIVEN THE
FACTS OF THE CASE.
>> I WAS SURPRISED GIVEN THE
PRECEDENCE IS THAT SWRUJS
RARELY OVERTURN ARBITRATIONS,
BUT IN THIS CASE IT
HAPPENED.
AND WITH A SWEEPING GESTURE
FROM THE JUDGE, CLEANING THE
SLATE FOR THE PATRIOTS AS
WELL AS FOR TOM BRADY.
AND I THINK AS LONG AS THIS
THING HAS DRAGGED ON, THIS
STARTED WAY BACK IN JANUARY,
HERE WE ARE IN SEPTEMBER.
ANOTHER FOOTBALL SEASON IS
ABOUT TO START.
I THINK A LOT OF FANS HAVE
JUST BEEN PARALYZED BY THE
CONTINUATION OF LEAKS FROM
THE STORY AND THE
CONVERSATION ABOUT THE STORY.
AND ARE JUST READY FOR IT TO
MOVE ON.
AND QUITE FRACKLY, GIVEN THE
WAY THAT THE LEAGUE HAS
HANDLED SOME OTHER MATTERS
THAT ARE MUCH MORE SERIOUS,
I THINK, THAN THE PSI IN
FOOTBALL, I THINK PEOPLE
FELT THAT THERE WAS NO WAY
THAT THE LEAGUE WAS GOING TO
BE ABLE TO HAMMER TOM BRADY
IN THE SAME MANNER THAT HAD
IT HAD SOME OTHERATE
REALITIES WHO HAD GONE
ASTRAY OF THE REAL LAW.
>> Ifill: WELL, PICKING UP
ON KEVIN'S REFERENCE TO
OTHER MATTERS WHICH HAVE
ARISEN FOR ROGER GOODELL,
DAN SHAUGHNESSY, HOW BIG OF
A DEFEAT, A SETBACK WAS THIS
FOR HIM TODAY?
>> THIS IS BAD FOR HIM.
I MEAN CUZ IF THIS WERE
UPHELD, AND IT COULD BE
YEARS BEFORE WE KNOW THAT, I
DON'T KNOW HOW QUICKLY THE
SUPERIOR SECOND CIRCUIT
COURT RULES.
BUT THIS BASICALLY TELLS YOU
IF YOU ARE AN NFL PLAYER AND
GET PUNISHED BY THE
COMMISSIONER, JUST GO TO
COURT.
THAT IS A BAD PRECEDENT FOR
THE LEAGUE TO HAVE.
AND THEY'RE ON A LOSING
STREAK IN COURT.
AND THIS IS A BIG SETBACK
FOR THEM, DEFINITELY.
>> Ifill: THE COMMISSIONER
HAS ALSO SAID, KEVIN
BLACKISTONE THAT HE WILL
APPEAL THIS.
WHAT ARE THE CHANCES OF THAT,
OR ARE WE JUST GOING TO KEEP
STRETCHING THIS OUT?
>> YOU KNOW, I THINK HE'S
GOING TO KEEP STRETCHING IT
OUT.
I MEAN THE CYNIC IN ME
SUGGESTS THAT THIS IS A MOLE
HILL BUILT INTO A MOUNTAIN
WITH PURPOSE BY THE NFL TO
STOP PEOPLE FROM LOOKING AT
THE REAL ISSUE SUCH AS THE
CONCUSSION STORY.
I MEAN BACK IN APRIL THE
LEAGUE HAD TO RAISE ITS
CEILING FOR WHAT IT'S GOING
TO PAY FOR A CONCUSSION
LAWSUITS TO OVER A BILLION
DOLLARS.
WE JUST SAW A REPORT FROM
"THE NEW YORK TIMES" A FEW
DAYS AGO ABOUT THIS NEW WILL
SMITH MOVIE CALLED
"CONCUSSIONS" WHERE THE NFL
APPARENTLY GOT INVOLVED WITH
SONY, ONE OF ITS CORPORATE
PARTNERS THROUGH VIDEO
GAMING, TO TRY AND TONE DOWN
ANY MESSAGING IN THAT FILM
THAT WOULD
IMPLICATION-- IMPLICATE THE
NFL IN THE ENTIRE CONCUSSION
ISSUE.
AND OF COURSE THAT COURT
CASE BACK IN APRIL, WHERE
THEY WERE FORCED TO PAY OVER
A BILLION DOLLARS IN
SETTLEMENT, ALSO INCLUDED
INFORMATION WHERE THE NFL
DID NOT HAVE TO REVEAL WHAT
IT KNEW AND WHEN IT KNEW AND
HOW MUCH YOU IT KNEW ABOUT
THIS ENTIRE CONCUSSION
STORY.
SO THAT IS FAR MORE SERIOUS,
YET THEIR MARKETING AND
PUBLIC RELATIONS HAS PULLED
ALL OF US IN THE MEDIA AND
ALL THE FANS INTO TALKING
ABOUT PSI AN FOOTBALL.
>> WELL, THERE ALSO HAVE
BEEN QUESTIONS ABOUT
GOODELL'S HANDLING OF SOME
PLAYER ABUSE CASES, DAN
SHAUGHNESSY.
WE ALWAYS RAISE THE QUESTION
AFTER EVERY ONE OF THESE
CASES WHERE ROGER GOODELL
SURVIVE.
DO YOU SEE ANY SHIFT IN THAT
LANDSCAPE FOR HIM TODAY?
>> I THINK IT'S A SETBACK
TODAY.
I WOULD BE MAD AT THE
LAWYERS, MAD AT THE
COMMISSIONER IF I WERE AN
NFL OWNER.
AT THE SAME TIME, THE RAY
RICE THING A YEAR AGO WAS
FAR WORSE IN TERMS OF PUBLIC
RELATIONS.
HERE YOU'VE GOT A BUY
ABUSING HIS WIFE IN THE
ELEVATOR, VIDEO OF IT,
NATIONAL OUTRAGE AN YET THE
LEAGUE HAD ONE OF ITS BEST
YEARS EVER.
IT ALWAYS DOES, PEOPLE LOVE
NFL.
THEY LOVE TO AM GABLE.
THEY LOVE THE TELEVISION, OF
FOOTBALL.
AND IT GOES ON.
THE THING MOVES ON.
THE OTHER 31 OWNERS IT'S UP
TO THEM.
WE KNOW BOB KRAFT IS MAD AT
ROGER GOODELL.
HOW DO THE OTHER FEEL, I SAY
HE SURVIVES THIS.
>> Ifill: LET ME ASK YOU
BOTH WHETHER IN THE END IT
IS ABOUT THE PSI CASE WHICH
IS WHAT IS ON THE TABLE
TODAY OR ANYTHING ELSE.
IS FOOTBALL DAMAGED?
IS TOM BRADY VIND CATED?
WHAT IS THE OUTCOME AFTER A
RULING LIKE TODAY'S KEVIN
BLACKISTONE?
>> WELL, I MEAN I THINK THE
DAMAGE IS ON GOODELL, AS YOU
STARTED TO MENTION, THE
BEGINNING OF.
THIS HE SUFFERED ANOTHER
BLOW TO HIS REPUTATION AS A
STEWARD OF THIS GAME.
HOWEVER AS DAN ALLUDED TO,
THIS GAME JUST GOES ON.
THE GAME IS GOING TO MAKE
MORE MONEY THIS YEAR THAN
LAST YEAR AND LAST YEAR WAS
A RECORD YEAR.
WHICH IS WHY ROGER GOODELL'S
POCKETS CONTINUE TO GET
LINED WITH TENS OF MILLIONS
OF DOLLARS FROM THE MEN WHO
HE WORKS FOR AS OWNERS OF
THE FRANCHISES IN THIS
LEAGUE.
AND AS SOON AS THE GAME
STARTS FOR REAL, PEOPLE WILL
FORGET ABOUT THIS.
BROADCASTERS WON'T TALK
ABOUT IT.
THOSE OF US WHO WRITE ABOUT
THE GAME WON'T WRITE ABOUT
IT THAT OFTEN.
WE'LL BE TALKING ABOUT WINS
AND LOSSES AND INJURIES AND
SURPRISES, AND ROOKIES WHO
ARE SHOWING OUT AND VETERANS
WHO ARE ON THE DOWNSIDE OF
THEIR CAREERS.
AND HOW THE PATRIOTS ARE
MANAGING THE SEASON.
>> Ifill: AND ABOUT THE GAME,
BASICALLY.
>> SURE, THE GAME.
AND WITH ALL OF THIS, I
WOULD BET THAT THE FIRST
PATRIOTS GAME OF THIS SEASON
WILL BE ONE OF THE MOST
WATCHED GAMES OF ALL TIME.
>> Ifill: SO DAN SHAUGHNESSY,
DOES THAT MEAN TOM BRADY
DOES A REAL VICTORY LAP,
UNINTERRUPTED VICTORY LAP?
>> WHEN HE'S PLAYING AT
FOXBOROUGH IT IS ULS GOING
TO BE THAT WAY.
IT WOULD BE THAT WAY EVEN IF
HE LOST TODAY, DON'T WORRY
ABOUT THAT, BUT THEY HAVE A
PRESEASON GAME TONIGHT,
OPENER IS A WEEK FROM
TONIGHT, NATIONAL TV.
THAT WILL BE A BIG VICTORY
LAP.
THEY WILL UNIF YOU RECALL
THE CHAMPIONSHIP BANNER AND
TOM BRADY WILL BE THERE AT
QUARTERBACK.
>> DAN SHAUGHNESSY OF THE
"BOSTON GLOBE" AND KEVIN
BLACKISTONE, THANK YOU BOTH
VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: THE ISSUE OF
BENEFITS IN THE WORKPLACE IS
GETTING NEW ATTENTION AFTER A
SERIES OF HIGH-PROFILE
ANNOUNCEMENTS FROM THE TECH
SECTOR.
NETFLIX RECENTLY SAID IT WOULD
OFFER UP TO A YEAR OF PAID LEAVE
TO NEW PARENTS.
YAHOO CEO MARISSA MAYER STIRRED
UP ATTENTION AGAIN AFTER SHE
SAID SHE WOULD NOT TAKE OFF MUCH
TIME ONCE SHE GIVES BIRTH TO A
PAIR OF TWINS.
BUT THE VAST MAJORITY OF
AMERICAN WORKERS DO NOT RECEIVE
ANY PAID FAMILY LEAVE.
EARLIER THIS YEAR, OUR ECONOMICS
CORRESPONDENT PAUL SOLMAN LOOKED
AT WHY THAT IS.
HERE'S AN ENCORE OF THAT REPORT.
IT'S PART OF OUR WEEKLY SERIES,
"MAKING SENSE," WHICH AIRS EVERY
THURSDAY ON THE NEWSHOUR.
>> Reporter: AFTER HAVING HER
BABY, ELINORE, VANESSA HAWZE
TOOK 12 WEEKS OFF FROM HER
RETAIL JOB.
UNPAID.
IT CAUSED A CASH FLOW CRUNCH.
>> ANYTIME THAT I WENT TO THE
GROCERY, OR HAD TO GET GAS OR
BUY DIAPERS, I BOUGHT EVERYTHING
ON MY CREDIT CARDS.
>> Reporter: ELINORE'S FATHER,
NICK MCAULIFFE, TOOK NO UNPAID
LEAVE.
BECAUSE IF HE DID...
>> WE WOULD STARVE TO DEATH IF I
DID.
( LAUGHS )
>> Reporter: TEACHER MICHELLE
ALCOSER WAS BACK IN THE
CLASSROOM ONLY FIVE AND A HALF
WEEKS AFTER HAVING SON,
SEBASTIAN, ALL SHE COULD AFFORD.
>> WHEN I FIRST CAME BACK, HE
WAS STILL ONLY SLEEPING ABOUT 90
MINUTES AT A TIME, AND HAVING
THE TIME TO SLEEP AND HANDLE ALL
OF THE ADDITIONAL WORKLOAD THAT
COMES WITH THAT WAS A LOGISTICAL
CHALLENGE.
( LAUGHS )
>> Reporter: AND WHEN HER NEW
BABY, DECLAN, ARRIVED, CLAIRE
PRESTWOOD WAS COUNTING ON SICK
OR VACATION PAY FOR AT LEAST
SOME OF HER MATERNITY LEAVE.
BUT HER THREE-YEAR-OLD'S
ILLNESSES HAD WIPED THEM OUT.
SO PRESTWOOD WENT TO PROVIDERS
OF LAST RESORT.
>> WE SOLICIT LEAVE DONATIONS
AND COLLEAGUES OR WORK FRIENDS
WILL DONATE.
SO FAR, I'VE RECEIVED TWO
DONATIONS.
>> Reporter: THEY COVERED TWO
DAYS OF PAID LEAVE, FOR WHICH
THE PRESTWOODS' ARE ETERNALLY
GRATEFUL.
SUCH STRESSES ARE THE NORM IN
AMERICA, BUT, NOWHERE ELSE.
ACCORDING TO THE UNITED NATIONS,
WE AND PAPUA NEW GUINEA ARE THE
ONLY COUNTRIES IN THE WORLD THAT
DO NOT PROVIDE ANY PAID TIME OFF
FOR NEW MOTHERS.
AND ONLY SINCE 1993 HAVE WE HAD
THE FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE
ACT-- OR F.M.L.A.-- WHICH GRANTS
UP TO 12 WEEKS OF UNPAID LEAVE
FOR FULL-TIME WORKERS AT FIRMS
WITH FIFTY OR MORE EMPLOYEES.
BUT THE LAW FAILS TO COVER FULLY
40% OF AMERICANORKE WRS, LIKE
PART-TIMER KIMBERLY LEWIS.
>> I DON'T ACTUALLY GET TIME
OFF.
>> Reporter: LEWIS, A GRADUATE
ASSISTANT, WON'T BE ELIGIBLE FOR
EVEN UNPAID LEAVE WHEN SHE GIVES
BIRTH FEBRUARY.
>> I'VE BEEN WORKING DURING THIS
SEMESTER BREAK TO KIND OF BANK
HOURS IN ORDER SO THAT WHEN THE
BABY DOES COME, I WON'T HAVE TO
REPORT TO WORK THE NEXT DAY.
>> Reporter: THE NEXT DAY.
AS FOR PAID FAMILY LEAVE, 16
WEEKS IN THE NETHERLANDS, 52
WEEKS IN DENMARK AFTER THE BIRTH
OF A BOUNCING BABY OR EVEN A
DANCING BABY, ALMOST 70 WEEKS IN
SWEDEN, 12 WEEKS IN BURUNDI--
THAT'S JUST A PIPE DREAM FOR
AMERICANS LIKE LEWIS.
HERE ONLY ONE IN EIGHT RECEIVE
PAID FAMILY LEAVE.
PRESIDENT OBAMA PUSHED PAID
LEAVE IN HIS STATE OF THE UNION.
AND HIS DEPARTMENT OF LABOR HAS
URGED BUSINESSES TO LEAD ON
LEAVE.
BUT, CLAIRE PRESTWOOD POINTS
OUT, THE GOVERNMENT ITSELF
DOESN'T OFFER PAID LEAVE.
SHE
KNOWS BECAUSE SHE'S A FEDERAL
EMPLOYEE.
>> IT'S SLIGHTLY HYPOCRITICAL TO
TELL THE PRIVATE SECTOR THEY
NEED TO PAY MATERNITY AND
PATERNITY LEAVE, BUT THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT ITSELF DOES NOT OFFER
THAT.
>> Reporter: THE PRESIDENT HAS
NOW DIRECTED FEDERAL AGENCIES TO
ADVANCE EMPLOYEES SICK LEAVE, TO
BE REPAID LATER, AFTER THE BIRTH
OF A BABY, HE IS ALSO PRESSING
CONGRESS TO GRANT SIX WEEKS OF
ACTUAL PAID FAMILY LEAVE, THOUGH
PASSAGE IS UNLIKELY.
>> Reporter: BUT NOTHING'S
CHANGED FOR PRIVATE SECTOR
WORKERS LIKE VANESSA HAWZE.
JUST TO GET APPVAL ROFOR HER
F.M.L.A.-MANDATED UNPAID LEAVE,
IT TOOK MULTIPLE CALLS TO HUMAN
RESOURCES, DOCTORS NOTICES, A
PASSEL OF PAPERWORK.
>> IT CHANGED MY OPINION OF
WANTING TO BE EMPLOYED WHILE
BEING A NEW MOM.
>> IT'S JUST SO DIFFICULT TO
DEAL WITH YOUR EMPLOYER.
>> Reporter: NOW YOUR HEART
MIGHT GO OUT TO THESE WOMEN, BUT
MAYBE YOUR MIND SHOULD AS WELL.
PAID LEAVE NOT ONLY BOLSTERS
FAMILIES, SAYS ECONOMIST CHRIS
RUHM, BUT BOASTS BROAD ECONOMIC
BENEFITS AS WELL.
>> IT LEADS TO HIGHER OVERALL
EMPLOYMENT RATES OF WOMEN.
>> Reporter: RUHM HAS FOUND THAT
NEW MOMS ARE MORE LIKELY TO
RETURN TO WORK IF THEY GET PAID
LEAVE.
>> IT'S GOING TO PRESERVE HUMAN
CAPITAL, WHICH LEADS TO HIGHER
PRODUCTIVITY.
I THINK WE WOULD BE WILLING TO
ACTUALLY PAY SOME COSTS TO
SUPPORT A FAMILY VALUE, BUT IN
FACT IN THIS CASE, WE ACTUALLY
MIGHT GET A BENEFIT.
SO, SO IT'S A DOUBLE GAIN.
>> Reporter: TAKE GOOGLE, ONE OF
SEVERAL TECH FIRMS THAT ENTICE
TOP TALENT WITH FAMILY FRIENDLY
PERKS.
WHEN GOOGLE EXTENDED PAID
MATERNITY LEAVE TO 18 WEEKS, THE
RATE AT WHICH NEW MOMS LEFT THE
COMPANY FELL BY 50%.
YOUTUBE C.E.O. SUSAN WOJCICKI, A
LONGTIME GOOGLE EMPLOYEE,
BEFORE TAKING HER FIFTH
MATERNITY
LEAVE, CORROBORATES ECONOMIST
RAHM.
>> PAID LEAVE WORKS TO AVOID
COSTLY TURNOVER AND TO RETAIN
THE VALUED EXPERTISE, SKILLS AND
PERSPECTIVE OF OUR EMPLOYEES WHO
ARE MOTHERS.
THEY ANNOUNCED AN UNLIMITED
LEAF POLICY IN THE FIRSERTI
AFTER A CHILD'S BIRTH OR
ADOPTION.
OKAY SO, THEN THE OBVIOUS
QUESTION,
>> Reporter: OKAY, SO THEN THE
OBVIOUS QUESTION: WHY HASN'T THE
US JOINED THE REST OF THE WORLD,
PAPUA ASIDE, IN OFFERING PAID
FAMILY LEAVE?
>> IT CAN BE A, QUITE A HARDSHIP
FOR A COMPANY.
>> Reporter: TRICIA BALDWIN IS
THE SECRETARY TREASURER OF
RELIABLE CONTRACTING, WHERE
WORKERS GET 12 WEEKS OFF, PER
THE F.M.L.A.
PLUS, SHORT-TERM DISABILITY
PAYMENTS OF $200 A WEEK.
BUT EVEN THAT'S A BURDEN FOR
FIRMS LIKE HERS, SHE SAYS, THAT
AREN'T QUITE AS RICH AS GOOGLE.
>> IF WE HAVE SOMEONE IN A
POSITION, THAT JOB IS IMPORTANT.
SO, IT MEANS THAT JOB HAS TO BE
REPLACED, AND DONE BY SOMEBODY
ELSE.
THAT MEANS PAYING SOMEBODY, I
CAN'T IMAGINE HAVING TO PAY THEM
ALSO FOR THEIR SALARY WHILE
THEY'RE OUT AS WELL.
>> Reporter: THIS IS NO MINORITY
VIEW.
A SURVEY OF BUSINESSES FOUND 98%
OPPOSED TO MANDATED PAID FAMILY
LEAVE
>> IF IT'S GOOD BUSINESS,
BUSINESSES WILL DO IT.
>> Reporter: LIBERTARIAN
ECONOMIST JEFFREY MIRON DISPUTES
THE DATA ON THE BENEFITS OF PAID
LEAVE, BUT REGARDLESS, HE
THINKS, BUSINESS POLICY SHOULD
BE LEFT TO CONSENTING ADULTS.
>> THE GOVERNMENT SHOULDN'T BE
INTERFERING IN THE LABOR MARKET.
IT SHOULDN'T BE DICTATING ANY
TERMS THAT ARE ARRANGED BETWEEN
>> Reporter: BUT ARE YOU THEN
SAYING THAT LABOR MARKETS SHOULD
DECIDE THE WAGES AND BENEFITS
REGARDLESS OF ANY LEGISLATION AT
ALL, THAT IS, THERE SHOULD BE NO
MINIMUM WAGE, SAY?
>> THAT IS WHAT I WOULD SAY.
>> Reporter: MIRON'S IS AN
EXTREME VIEW, BUT IT CONTAINS A
KEY QUESTION ABOUT PAID LEAVE:
WHO'S GOING TO DO THE PAYING?
>> EITHER THE OWNER OF THE
BUSINESS IS GOING TO PAY FOR IT
IN LOWER PROFITS OR THE
CUSTOMER'S GOING TO PAY HIGHER
PRICES BECAUSE WE'VE RAISED THE
COST FOR THAT BUSINESS, OR IT'S
GOING TO COME FROM THE SALARIES
OF OTHER WORKERS, BECAUSE
SOMEONE HAS TO PAY FOR THE PAID
LEAVE OF THOSE PEOPLE WHO TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF SUCH A POLICY.
>> Reporter: BUT RUHM NOTES THAT
AFTER CALIFORNIA BECAME THE
FIRST STATE TO MANDATE THE
BENEFIT MORE THAN 90% OF
COMPANIES REPORTED EITHER
POSITIVE OR AT WORST NEUTRAL
EFFECTS.
>> BUSINESSES SEEM TO JUST MAKE
IT WORK, AND THE POLLING DATA WE
HAVE, WHEN WE SURVEY THEM, MOST
OF THEM SAY IT'S JUST NOT A BIG
DEAL.
>> Reporter: AND, SUPPORTERS
ASK, IS IT REALLY GOOD FOR OUR
ECONOMY THAT MOTHERS LIKE
MICHELLE RETURN TO WORK WHILE
HER SON STILL SLEEPS IN 90-
MINUTE BLOCKS AND NURSES
CONSTANTLY, WHILE SHOULDERING A
TEACHING LOAD THAT'S HEAVIER
THAN EVER?
>> IF I THINK ABOUT HOW HARD
'S I WON'T
DO IT.
>> Reporter: DO WE WANT NEW DADS
LIKE NICK McAULIFFE TO BE BACK
ON THE JOB SO SOON AFTER HIS
DAUGHTER IS BORN?
>> BELIEVE IT OR NOT, KIDS
ACTUALLY NEED THEIR DAD.
I DO WHAT I CAN, BUT I'M GONE
FOR TEN HOURS A DAY.
I'M GETTING FOUR HOURS OF SLEEP
A NIGHT, AND STILL HAVE TO PUT
IN 40, 45, 50 HOURS A WEEK.
>> Reporter: AND IN FACT, MOST
AMERICANS SAY THEY SUPPORT PAID
FAMILY LEAVE BUT NO ONE WANTS TO
PAY FOR IT.
SO FOR THE TIME BEING, IT'S
STILL JUST US AND PAPUA, NEW
GUINEA, GOING IT ALONE.
PAUL SOLMAN, REPORTING FOR THE
PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: NOW TO OUR WEEKLY
FEATURE, "BRIEF BUT
SPECTACULAR."
TONIGHT, WE HEAR FROM MAYOR ERIC
GARCETTI OF LOS ANGELES.
WITH CALIFORNIA IN THE MIDST OF
A SEVERE DROUGHT, THE STATE
IMPOSED MANDATORY WATER
RESTRICTIONS EARLIER THIS YEAR.
LAST WEEK, THE MAYOR'S OFFICE
ANNOUNCED THAT FOR THE MONTH OF
JULY, LOS ANGELES SAVED EVEN
MORE WATER THAN THE STATE ASKED
THEM TO, USING TWO MILLION FEWER
GALLONS.
>> THE DROUGHT IN LOS
ANGELES AND IN CALIFORNIA
ARE HERE TO STAY.
SO WE'VE GOT TO MAKE IT A
LITTLE MORE EXCITING, MAKE
IT A LITTLE MORE SEXY.
AH, WATER.
YOU SEE SO MUCH WATER
MISUSED, WASTED, THROWN OUT
TO THE OCEAN, OR BAD
DECISIONS MADE AS WE TAKE UP
MORE WATER THAN WE NEED TO
SUSTAIN LIFE.
THE SAVE THE DROP CAMPAIGN
IN LOS ANGELES IS ALL ABOUT
MINDFULNESS.
IT'S ABOUT BEING CONSCIOUS
OF OUR BEHAVIOR AN OUR USE.
I'M HALF MEXICAN, HALF
JEWISH SO IT WILL BE A
COMBINATION OF INTELLIGENCE
FORWARD LOOKING ACTION AND
OLD FASHION GUILT.
DROUGHT SHAMING IS WHEN YOU
GO TO YOUR NEXT-DOOR
NEIGHBOR AND SAY YOU KNOW,
YOU HAVE NEVER BEEN ON THAT
GRASS ON YOUR FRONT LAWN,
WHY DIDN'T YOU GET RID OF
IT.
I WOULD SAY IF YOU HAVE A
LAWN YOU ARE A USING, KEEP
IT.
WATER LESS FREQUENTLY BUT
KEEP IT BUT 90% OF LAWNS
SHALL MAYBE EVEN MORE GO
WE'RE BEING VERY INNOVATIVE
IN LOS ANGELES WITH WATER,
WITH THE PLENTIFUL WATER WE
STILL HAVE.
SWITCHING OUT OUR TURF AND
PAYING PEOPLE TO DO THAT TO
HAVE BETTER PLANS TO USE
LESS WATER AND RECYCLING
WATER.
ABOUT 60% OF OUR DAILY USE
OF WATER, EQUIVALENT OF THAT,
GETS TREATED THROUGH OUR
SAULTISH-- SAULTAGE
TREATMENT PLANTS TO A
STANDARD WE BASICALLY DRINK
AN WASH IT OUT TO THE OCEAN
TE
INTO THE LAND HERE.
WE'RE NOT JUST PLANNING FOR
THE NEXT TWO YEARS TO GET
THROUGH THE IMMEDIATESY OF
THE DROUGHT BUT WE HAVE A 10
YEAR AND 20 YEAR PLAN TO
WEAN OURSELVES OFF OF WATER
THAT WE IMPORT.
THIS IS AN NONPARTISAN
ISSUE.
WATER DOESN'T CARE WHAT YOUR
PARTY REGISTRATION IS.
IT JUST CARES THAT YOU ARE
WASTING IT.
I HOPE TO LEAVE BEHIND A
LEGACY IN WHICH WE
REENGINEER LOS ANGELES ONCE
AGAIN IN A WAY TO LIVE MORE
SUSTAINABLY WITH THE WATER
WE ALREADY HAVE.
I'M MAYOR ERIC GARCETTI AND
THERE IS MY BRIEF BUT
SPECTACULAR TAKE ON
CALIFORNIAAND OUR
RELATIONSHIP WITH WATER
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE, TODAY WE BEGIN A NEW
SERIES ON THE UNEXPECTED STORIES
BEHIND SOME COMPELLING PHOTOS
FROM LESSER-KNOWN PHOTOGRAPHERS.
OUR FIRST POST IS MORE OF AN
UNSOLVED MYSTERY: IT BEGAN WHEN
A PHOTOGRAPHER CAME ACROSS A
TROVE OF UNIDENTIFIED FILM IN A
THRIFT STORE.
WE POSTED TWO OF THOSE PHOTOS ON
OUR HOME PAGE.
SEE IF YOU CAN SOLVE THE MYSTERY
YOURSELF.
THAT'S AT pbs.org/newshour.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
JOIN US ONLINE, AND AGAIN HERE
TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND MICHAEL GERSON.
FOR ALL OF US AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.